>> Will Sentance: Let's start with,
who was the first person I saw?
Andrew, I'll start with you, Andrew.
>> Speaker 2: I'm noticing a lack
of semicolons, are they implied,
cuz it's slides, or
is this an intentional, something special?
>> Will Sentance: No, darn,
I almost forgot to mention
that I put semicolons back on.
Andrew, rescind that question.
Everybody online, semicolons matter.
And actually,
particularly in Node they do matter.
They do matter because if you
miss them off JavaScript strings
constrain your code together, and lead
to errors it can be quite hard to find.
Ignore this very bad practice,
semi-colons bad copying pasting into
this presentation from the code editor.
Thank you to Andrew for actually
a very helpful thing for everybody.
Sara Rose, go ahead please ask me
more about my body in JavaScript.
>> Speaker 3: I feel like I've
seen rec resident error as
a third parameter is that-
>> Will Sentance: Let's see how we handle
errors in just a few slides.
No problem, great question to T out there,
Rich you had a clarification?
Charlie?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, just to be clear the
only code that note we'll ever have access
to is what you provided in
the create server function.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, that's a good
way of putting the only function
code that can have an auto rock well.
On the same note as Sarah roses question.
We actually are gonna see that if that
request comes in very happily and
successfully, cheerfully,
great request, no errors.
I'll give you a preview,
it's actually gonna flash a little
message down here saying request,
which will also trigger this function.
Due on incoming but we can see that if
another situation, may be an error,
maybe the client sends a corrupted request
it might not flash request down here.
And therefore, it might not end up
triggering due on incoming, but
triggering something else.
So we're gonna get more
control than you think.
Mohammed, you're up next.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, just clarifying
the the second object is created.
>> Will Sentance: It's a weird one, right?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, and
we get to set that label.
>> Will Sentance: Weakens the label?
I could call it,
you know I could call it Mohammed's
auto created object of function.
No, not Mohammed's, Muhammad's favorite
note auto created set of functions.
And as long as you then refer
to it by the same label,
when we want to access stuff on it.
What do we try to access on it?
What function are we trying
to access on it, Mohamed?
>> Speaker 2: The sending back the-
>> Will Sentance: We just want name.
What's the functions name?
Anyone got it?
>> Speaker 2: End.
>> Will Sentance: End,
by the way, how do we know that?
The Node homepage, the Node docks.
It is literally got,
that's where we spend most of our time.
As long as we have this internal
meta model that's the point of node.
As long as you have this
under the hood mental model,
you just go to Node docs,
and you go and look for.
What's the auto inserted data
that when the background
task finishes gets inserted?
And therefore, how do I need to structure
the function that I pass as the auto
triggered by Node function, such that I
know what I need to set parameters up.
And then the order inserted objects full
of in this case like multiple functions
do like 20 functions.
I just get access to them by using the
label I gave the second inserted input,
auto inserted input,
and then there's a whole bunch of
function on here we just use in for now.
There's other things that I write as a
whole bunch of folks we can use to control
specifically what we add to this
message to get sent back, sounds good.
>> Speaker 2: So we'll end as take any
parameter and then just send it along.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, it's
a simplifying, really it's job is to say
you've finished editing
the message down here, move on.
Cuz typically what we do is we will
use other functions in here to set
on this not object, sorry,
this HTTP text message.
It's a text message,
set other bits of information on it.
We can set the headers, we can set
the body, we usually run end, or
with nothing in it as the input.
Cuz its only Java is to say hey node,
I finished editing stuff on this message,
you can send it back now,
but you can also path to it.
And then want to keep it as simple as
possible to start, you can also pause to
it a string, and that stream will
be the message that gets them back,
but that's not typically how we use it.
Typically, we add content to this
message to send back using things like
the right function here, or we can set
headers on this message to get send back.
But in the end if you
do pass something to it
will be implicitly the data
that gets sent back.
It's a shorthand just of our very,
very first Node server, and it is a full
server that we have at least we minimize
the number of new things are introducing.
We typically wouldn't use end for this,
but it goes a very, very light weight of
setting the data on the response message,
a chippy message back.
Great question Sam.
We want to come back to it,
Seth we have a question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
sure, just a curiosity,
what happen if we open don't listen
to the create server doing comming.
>> Will Sentance: No problem,
and most people would do that.
Most people would say, because what is
this obvious returns an object which has
got a bunch of functions on it that give
us edit access over the background here.
We use one of the functions,
which one was it, is that?
>> Speaker 2: Don't listen.
>> Will Sentance: Listen.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Will Sentance: But JavaScript in
evaluated language, which means,
this here when it returns on the object
it actually gets rid of that,
and turns it into this object.
Meaning, you can then put dot
listen on the end of it there,
and you're just going to grab the listen
function from that object and run it.
Jobs as an evaluate language means any
statement must be eventually turned into
its actual underlying value which
in this case is this object.
And so we can grab the missing
function of it in the same line, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So,
to follow up on that question, right?
You're not doing it, just because
you think they're like JavaScript,
it's single threaded, so
it has to do different instructions.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Will Sentance: No, I'm doing ti for
clarity, to show you that we get
an object out that will allow us for
the rest of time in this JavaScript thread
to be able to continue to have edit access
over this background feature via the label
server which gives us access to the object
that came out.
Yeah, I'm just doing it for
pedagogical purposes.
Here you go, Michael, go ahead man.
>> Speaker 2: How does the sender
computer know which port to get?
I know they were setting-
>> Will Sentance: I should said,
I made that really,
really clear it defaults to it,
every browser sends our message,
defaults to 80.
We don't even need to write it,
we don't need to say twitter.com,
enter at port 80, it defaults to 80.
>> Speaker 2: So sometimes you're able to
set your Node port to a different port?
>> Will Sentance: Why
would we even do that?
We'll see in a moment, but when we're
developing we may want to change it.
Plus there are other slightly marginally
different protocols, like HDPS that there
is a secure connection from our computer
browser through to the web server.
That would not allow others to
interfere with that message being sent,
sort of man in the middle they call it or
person in the middle attack.
It'll block that from happening,
which doesn't default to entering at 80,
it defaults to entering at
a different entry point.
Okay, great question, yeah.
Andrew, go ahead,
you had a follow-up I think.
>> Speaker 2: So are we essentially
saying JavaScript says to Node,
Here's a bunch of functionality,
hold this and do this at the right time.
>> Will Sentance: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: And then, does Node run
that in the same execution context as
Java Script, or
is that kind of off running its own thing?
>> Will Sentance: It is coming
right back into JavaScript, but
then you might be saying, holy goddamn,
that's an automatic inserted function
back into JavaScript to execute.
In our main thread, or in our thread,
in our single thread from
outside of JavaScript?
When the hell is that
function allowed back in?
What if there's 30 all want
to go back at the same time?
Well, they're all gonna run
at the same time, right?
It's single threaded, one thing at a time.
Which order do they get run in?
Before the end of today we will
have a full map of exactly when any
auto-run function from Node is allowed
to auto run back in JavaScript.
Any function which we saved to Node
using things like Create Service,
Save the Oncoming Function in Node.
When is it allowed back in
to have the purple pen,
the Node pen execute its code, when?
Because what if I've got a bunch
of other code running here?
Does it just say, hold on, stop?
I'm coming back in now, I'm ready to run.
Or do we need a set of strict rules for
when this function is allowed back in?
And it's gonna turn out, we do.